# Upgrade steps from 7.1 to 7.2

See `doc/bc/changes-7.2.md` for requirements changes and deprecations.

## MySQL/MariaDB database tables character set change

The character set for MySQL/MariaDB database tables should be changed from `utf8` to `utf8mb4` to support 4-byte characters. See [data/update/mysql/dbupdate-7.1.0-to-7.2.0.sql](/data/update/mysql/dbupdate-7.1.0-to-7.2.0.sql) for the statements that shorten table indexes, these must be run first. If you use DFS, see also [data/update/mysql/dbupdate-7.1.0-to-7.2.0-dfs.sql](/data/update/mysql/dbupdate-7.1.0-to-7.2.0-dfs.sql) for additional SQL statements. Beware that these upgrade statements may fail due to index collisions, which may occur when indexes are shortened. If that happens, you must remove the duplicates manually, and then repeat the statements that failed.

After successfully running those statements, change the character set of each table to `utf8mb4`. This can be done as shown below, for each of the standard tables in eZ Platform, and for any custom table you may want to convert. You may specify a collation; if you don't, the default collation for utf8mb4 will be used. We recommend specifying `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci`, which is able to tell different emojis apart, though you may have other requirements.

To get a list of tables, enter the SQL command `show tables;`. For each of the tables you want to convert, replace `tbl_name` with the name of the table to convert:
```sql
-- Example using utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci collation
ALTER TABLE tbl_name CONVERT TO CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci;
```

You should also change the character set that is specified in the application config, and in legacy if you use that.

In `app/config/config.yml`, set the following:
```yml
doctrine:
    dbal:
        connections:
            default:
                charset: utf8mb4
```
Also make the corresponding change in `app/config/dfs/dfs.yml`.

For legacy, in `ezpublish_legacy/settings/site.ini`, set the following:
```
[DatabaseSettings]
Charset=utf8mb4
```

## Notifications moved to Community edition

Database schema needs to be updated. To do this you should execute one of the following scripts:

* For MySQL: `data/update/mysql/dbupdate-7.1.0-to-7.2.0.sql`
* For PostgreSQL: `data/update/postgres/dbupdate-7.1.0-to-7.2.0.sql`

